Former President Bill Clinton left a New York hospital on Friday morning after undergoing what his cardiologist called a successful procedure to clear a blocked artery.
Terry McAuliffe, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, told “The Early Show” on CBS that Mr. Clinton was heading back to his home in Chappaqua, north of New York City.
Mr. Clinton, 63, who has a history of heart trouble, had two stents inserted into one of his coronary arteries after a bypass graft from an operation nearly six years ago became obstructed, Dr. Allan Schwartz, the head of cardiology at New York-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital, said Thursday night at a news conference outside the hospital in Washington Heights. 
Within two hours of the procedure, Mr. Clinton was up and walking again, and Dr. Schwartz said he planned to send him home on Friday and allow him to return to work on Monday. 
He was taken to the hospital on Thursday after experiencing chest discomfort.
“I expect President Clinton to resume his very active lifestyle,” Dr. Schwartz said. 
He said the condition was not a result of the president’s work or eating habits. 
“President Clinton has really toed the line in terms of diet and exercise,” he said, adding that the president’s cholesterol numbers were “normal.”
Dr. Schwartz said Mr. Clinton began complaining of chest discomfort even when he was not exerting himself over the last few days, but an associate said he had waited until Thursday to go to the hospital because of the snowstorm that hit the East Coast. 
He arrived about noon and, Dr. Schwartz said, underwent tests that found no evidence of a heart attack.
The episode came days after Mr. Clinton returned from Haiti, where he serves as the United Nations special envoy and is helping coordinate recovery from last month’s earthquake. 
Mr. Clinton was talking about Haiti on a cellphone with his wife’s chief of staff, Cheryl D. Mills, even as he was being wheeled into the operating room, and only reluctantly gave up the phone, said an associate, who like others insisted on anonymity to describe the day’s events.
“President Clinton is in good spirits and will continue to focus on the work of his foundation and Haiti’s relief and long-term recovery efforts,” his counselor, Douglas J. Band, said in a statement.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton learned of her husband’s procedure shortly before her weekly meeting with President Obama in the Oval Office, a senior State Department official said. 
She went ahead with the meeting and then left for New York.
Mrs. Clinton and the couple’s daughter, Chelsea, were with Mr. Clinton on Thursday night, Dr. Schwartz said.
Mrs. Clinton decided to delay her departure for the Persian Gulf to Saturday from Friday to be with her husband. 
She is to travel to Qatar and then to Saudi Arabia, where she is scheduled to meet King Abdullah.
The State Department official said Mrs. Clinton felt confident that her husband would be fine. 
“The trip is on, which should speak volumes,” the official said.
Mr. Obama called Mr. Clinton at the hospital about 7 p.m. 
“He said that the efforts in Haiti were too important for him to be laid up for too long and hopes he’ll be ready to get back to work as soon as possible,” a White House official said, adding that Mr. Clinton told the president that he felt “absolutely great.”
Former President George W. Bush, who has teamed with Mr. Clinton on Haiti earthquake relief, talked with Chelsea Clinton, who was at the hospital with her fiancé, Marc Mezvinsky.
Mr. Clinton had quadruple coronary artery bypass surgery in 2004. 
He never had a heart attack, but that surgery was similarly prompted by complaints about chest pain and shortness of breath. 
He later developed a rare complication, with scar tissue and fluid building up in his lung, making it hard for him to breathe, requiring another operation in March 2005.
Cardiologists said Mr. Clinton’s situation was not uncommon. 
In the type of bypass operation Mr. Clinton had in 2004, doctors snip out pieces of the patient’s chest arteries or leg veins and sew them to the native arteries on the surface of the heart to create detours around blocked coronary arteries. 
But over time, vein segments taken from legs can clog. 
It is also possible that one of the original bypassed arteries developed a blockage in a region beyond the bypass.
Dr. Raj Makkar, director of interventional cardiology and the cardiac catheterization laboratory at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, said nearly a quarter of the million patients a year who need stents have had bypass surgery in the past. 
“It can be dealt with very effectively using coronary stents,” he said.
Before placing a stent, dye is injected and X-rays taken to look for blockages. 
When they are found, doctors pass a tube with a balloon into the narrowed area and inflate the balloon to compress plaque deposits against the side of the artery. 
The procedure is called an angioplasty. Next, they insert the stent, a collapsible tube made of metal mesh, which props the vessel open.